The Red Thorn Syndicate is the preeminent criminal organization in Western Kalinar. It has been building up its influence since Emperor [[Christopher]] took the throne three years ago. The Red Thorn is based in [[Bilell]], in an underground hideout beneath the St. Kithri's Cemetery.

**Origin**

After [[Rilad]] was kidnapped and taken to [[Bilell]], she and several other captives who had been previously captured escaped.  They banded together to obtain money by stealing and watching out for each other. They decided to take revenge on the bandits. They organized a large group of individuals who had been victimized by the bandits in the past and infiltrated the bandits' base. They dispatched them and saw that they were a relatively organized group. They knew that other bandits and criminal groups in the region would learn of their success, so rather than letting that influence go to waste, they decided to take over the operation as their own to protect each other and continue making a living. They grew by taking in other criminal groups who wanted in on the influence and power [[Rilad]] and her friends had created for themselves. They were a thorn in the side of more "institutionalized" and longstanding organizations, as [[Rilad]]'s group grew incredibly rapidly. As a result, they named themselves the "Red Thorn Syndicate." Given the wealth of knowledge each of the different sub-organizations were bringing to the group, they focus on information brokering, sale of illicit items on the black market (they steal items to sell).