The leader of the [[Red Thorn]] Syndicate.

Rilad was captured and taken to Fort Gloomwind on suspicion of being a Justicar. The Awakened [[Justicars]] rescued her, and she joined them on their journey to [[Twindolen]]. She was captured by raiders along the way, causing one of the Awakened, [[Grum-Grum]] to seek her out to save her. Before Grum-Grum could find her, though, she was taken to [[Bilell]], she and several other captives who had been previously captured escaped.  They banded together to obtain money by stealing and watching out for each other. They decided to take revenge on the bandits. They organized a large group of individuals who had been victimized by the bandits in the past and infiltrated the bandits' base. They dispatched them and saw that they were a relatively organized group. They knew that other bandits and criminal groups in the region would learn of their success, so rather than letting that influence go to waste, they decided to take over the operation as their own to protect each other and continue making a living. They grew by taking in other criminal groups who wanted in on the influence and power Rilad and her friends had created for themselves. They were a thorn in the side of more "institutionalized" and longstanding organizations, as Rilad's group grew incredibly rapidly. As a result, they named themselves the "[[Red Thorn]] Syndicate." Given the wealth of knowledge each of the different sub-organizations were bringing to the group, they focus on information brokering, sale of illicit items on the black market (they steal items to sell).