---
aliases: [vision]
---

[[Shayna Thosva|Shayna]], you lay restless for some time, despite your weariness after a long day's journey.  You hear the pitter-patter of Felix, your pet weasel's feet, as he moves here and there in the tent trying to find a comfortable spot.  Eventually, he does, right next to your shoulder, and soon enough, you begin to hear his tiny snores.  You, on the other hand, are still restless, and continue to be so for some time. Eventually, you turn to your side, and, thankfully, concentrating on the ambient sounds of the wildlife and bugs outside your tent, you feel yourself drifting off to sleep. 

Suddenly, you find yourself running through a forest.  The home you grew up in is just ahead of you.  Felix is close behind.  You open the door, and walk inside.  You see your mother tending to a fire she has started in the fireplace.  She gracefully turns to you and offers you a gentle smile.  Your father is there too. He is attempting to string on a bow.  But his large hands are making the task somewhat difficult. Thus, in stark contrast to your human mother, your Orc father is clearly frustrated--that is, until he sees you walk in the door.  Like your mother, he smiles at you.  You turn back to your mother, who is now walking toward you with a package in hand.  Must have been something she got you while she was in town.  You unwrap it to find that it is a book.  You're elated.  You love reading, and it is always so nice to come home to such a thoughtful gift from your mother.  You look up to your mother to thank her, but where her face should be, there is nothing. No features. No nose. Her eyes are gone. Her mouth, nonexistent.  You are incredibly startled.  And the book in your hand begins to turn to ash and fall away into dust. You turn to your father. But while just a moment ago he was smiling at you, he is now weeping uncontrollably.  You hear his sobs in agony and see the tears falling from his face.  While he was holding a bow in his hand, he now holds a necklace in his massive hands.  The same necklace, you realize, that you normally wear around your neck.  The necklace is burning with a bright red fire.  You have noticed your necklace doing this in the past.  But you are unsure why it causes your father to weep.  The droning you had heard from the bugs just before you walked into the house begin to grow louder and louder.  You are startled by how loud the sound has become, but your main focus now must be comforting your father.  As you walk toward him to console him, the world around you, in an instant, fades to darkness.  Your house, the fireplace, your parents are nowhere to be seen. The droning instantly stops, and you are left in inky, dark blackness. But out of the shadows walks a massive humanoid individual wearing a dark cloak.  You cannot see his face.  He walks toward you and stops about eight feet away.  "Little one," he says in a gruff, gravely voice.  "Your father referred me to you.  He says you can help. You must find us. You must free us. The fate of the world is at stake." How do you react?

He pauses for a moment. Before he repeats, "You must find us. You must free us. The fate of the world is at stake."  The cloak he was wearing suddenly falls into a billowing heap on the dark ground.  You snap awake in a cold sweat, breathing heavily.  In doing so, you startle Felix awake.  He looks a little annoyed at the rude awakening.  You look toward the entrance of your tent, and through the crack of the flaps, you can see the sun beginning to rise.



"If the blind one is made to see, there will be ruin." - Grummsh is convinced that the Blight is right?